WRITTEN BY HYUGA NATSU
Lady Gyokuyou,
what do you mean Maomao hasn’t come back?
From the look of it,
it seems like you didn’t sneak her out.
I would not do that.
Has she gotten herself involved
in something troublesome again?
Hongniang, when did you last see her?
She was here yesterday during the day.
She was apparently preparing mugwort
for Lady Gyokuyou in the medical office.
At that time,
they apparently discussed making a notice
to post in the rear palace.
After that,
she went to the study hall.
I searched everywhere
she might have gone,
but I couldn’t find her.
She may act impulsively sometimes,
but she knows abandoning her post
as Lady Gyokuyou's attendant
would lead to punishment.
Unless... she can’t return.
Or perhaps she got caught up in something.
Did she make any enemies?
If it's enemies,
she most likely made them here and there.
Even Maomao
wouldn’t stand a chance
if she was ganged up on.
Yes. However...
Xiaomao wouldn’t go down so easily
without taking someone down with her.
If she stays gone with no explanation,
we’ll have no choice but to punish her.
But before that, we must find her.
Excuse me.
Oh, Lord Jinshi, I was just preparing tea...
No need.
Rather, I have questions for you.
About Maomao, right?
Yes. Tell me everything that happened
before she vanished.
Yes.
That’s all I know.
She made mugwort in the medical office,
then went to the study hall.
I can't get more than what I already heard
at the Jade Palace.
Now that I think about it,
is Maomao not around today?
MAOMAO
Speaking of her,
when the young lady left here,
she was oddly clingy.
What was she like?
I think it was when
you went to the toilet, Mr. Luomen.
She was a bit too clingy
for just being playful.
I think it was
after she took out some medicine
that helps with fatigue.
What's wrong, Mr. Luomen?
Is this what she took?
I don’t remember that well,
but I feel like there used to be more.
I’m sorry,
but may I go look for her?
Do you know where she is?
No, I mean the cat Maomao.
Though I might find the girl too.
How will finding the cat help?
I don't know...
It’s a new medicine, strong in aroma,
and very effective.
Maomao, where are you? Meow!
Let’s pretend we didn’t hear that.
A cat’s range
isn't usually that extensive.
Lord Jinshi, we’ve found her.
- Where?
- In the thickets on the north side.
She’s either sleeping... or drunk.
These berries...
They match the ones I brought earlier.
There’s also this, and...
Paper?
There’s nothing written on it...
Maomao probably left it.
But if it’s blank,
what was she trying to say?
We might understand
if we return to the medical office.
He won't say anything until there's proof.
So Maomao took after
her adoptive father, huh?
This may look like a blank piece of paper,
but she used to enjoy
this little game as a child.
The writing...
If you write on paper using juice or tea,
only that part burns more easily
when it's heated.
This time, she used alcohol.
Ah, now that you mention it,
she did take a few bottles of alcohol.
You could’ve said that first.
Why was the cat Maomao sleeping there?
This is called catnip.
When brewed into tea,
it helps relieve poor circulation
and fatigue.
Cats love it. It makes them act drunk.
She likely used the cat as a marker,
and used it.
Although the odds of finding it are low,
she probably hoped Luomen would notice.
One character is "shrine,"
but I can’t read the other one.
Is there a shrine near that area?
There’s an old building
north of the rear palace.
Let's send someone.
The other character...
What is it? It looks hastily scribbled,
like there wasn’t time.
Was she in a desperate situation?
Well, who knows?
Aren’t you worried?
I'm worried. However...
all I can do is what I’m able to do.
I can’t let this
interfere with my other duties.
Plus, she was out of contact
for nearly a year once before.
Right after she was taken,
she couldn’t even reach her family
and just worked silently as a maid.
These two are similar...
I will do the same. I’ll do what I can.
Excuse me.
Lord Jinshi!
I must carry myself as a noble.
I will do what I can.
Right now, as a eunuch,
my duty is to track Maomao down.
It's messy handwriting...
More than messy. it looks rushed,
as if she couldn’t write properly.
It sort of looks like
the character for "wing."
But the lower part is quite neat.
Mao Mao’s writing has a quirk to it.
Everyone, take a look.
Isn't this the character for "next"?
It’s similar, but something feels off.
Yeah, there are more strokes.
I agree, Sister.
What do you think, Seki-u?
Doesn’t it look like
the character for "green"?
Look here. It looks warped
but it’s actually straight.
You're right. Green because this is
the Jade Palace?
I wonder what she meant by it.
Shisui.
Who’s that?
Um, it’s the name of a maid
who’s often seen with Maomao.
She’s called Shisui...
A name, huh...
There’s another maid
whose name also includes "Sui."
There’s also one called Shaoran,
and they often hung out together.
I’ve met that maid a few times.
But the other one vanished...
Find the maid named Shisui.
Yes!
Lord Jinshi.
We’re drifting...
I wonder where we’re headed.
Who knows?
If you want to save this girl, obey.
Back then, I had no choice
but to follow Suirei.
If I had refused, both Shisui and I
would’ve been in danger.
I wasn't tempted by
the medicine to revive the dead.
Huh? What?
Still, who knew there was such
a hidden passage in the rear palace?
Don’t even think of calling for help.
This place...
is near where I first met Shisui.
- Shenlü, keep watch.
- Yes.
All right. Let’s go.
I hope my father realizes what’s going on.
A carriage is waiting outside.
From here on, you’ll play the part
of a village girl who has been sold off.
Change clothes there,
and we’ll head to the port.
When I changed,
the alcohol was discovered.
The only thing I managed to keep on me
was the hairpin Lord Jinshi gave me.
Should I make plans to escape with Shisui?
No.
- You'll go to sleep?
- Yeah.
Me too.
She’s usually so loud and cheerful,
like a kid.
Good night, Maomao.
Good night, Shisui.
We'll walk a bit further now.
We had to switch boats twice.
We were on the river...
Are these guys the guards?
Something’s off.
When we were on the boat,
I thought we were heading north,
but this forest
is warm and humid.
Where could this be?
I wonder if there are
any unusual plants growing here.
What was that?
A snake? Afraid of snakes?
That’s not so strange.
What is strange is...
It's okay. They're not here anymore.
This is bad.
Slowly breathe in... and out.
Hey, you!
This confirms it.
What are you trying to pull?
Just some petty harassment.
It didn’t seem like that was all...
Suirei, you knew Shisui
before this, didn’t you?
What are you talking about?
Shisui seems far more educated
than she looks.
And her manners here and there
gave away her privileged upbringing.
A bug!
Although it's true
that she didn’t always act that way.
There are plenty of maids like that.
After all, even the strategist
has a daughter.
Seems like they've looked into me too...
Shisui,
you must’ve been shocked when that kitten
appeared from the secret passage.
You panicked and chased her,
only to be seen by someone.
Maomao, you are sharp.
That's why you set me up, huh?
But don't do that again.
My older sister hates snakes.
Didn’t I say the name was too obvious?
The others didn’t catch on though.
Suirei and Shisui
only differ by one character.
Most maids can’t read,
so they didn’t notice.
But that solves one mystery.
How did Maomao get in?
Shisui was visiting
the bath around that time.
Probably to help her get in contact with
Suirei more easily while she
worked as a eunuch, transporting water.
Maybe I’ve failed as a spy.
Why did these two take me
away from the rear palace?
Maybe to use me to check on that guy?
If so, nothing good will come of it.
Let’s go.
I guess running will be useless
after coming this far.
There’s one more thing
I haven’t confirmed.
I’m not sure, but...
Could it be... Shisui is...?
We've arrived.
There's a village out here?
- Hot springs?
- Yeah.
Otherwise, who’d build a village here?
No wonder it’s so humid and warm.
Are those foreigners?
That paper ornament...
The envoy during the moon spirit.
No... It couldn’t be.
Watch where you’re going!
Don’t just stand there like an idiot!
If this was the pleasure district,
I'd knock this brat out!
- Hey!
- Ouch!
You weren’t looking either, Kyou-u.
Sis!
Wait, it’s big sis Suirei!
What’s with the outfit?
It really suits you!
Shut it.
They're acquaintances?
I heard
I’d never see you two again...
Guess nanny was lying, huh?
Nanny, huh? Typical rich brat.
Oh! Is it the festival?
So that’s why you’re back!
It starts tomorrow!
Yeah. Hard to believe we made it in time.
Did you prepare a festival lantern?
We just got back.
Hope there’s something good left.
Let’s check! This way, come on!
Is this an inn? Quite a fancy building.
That’s one of the guards
who took the envoy.
Wondering why a special envoy is here,
are you?
You know they were an envoy?
Even after coming back to life,
I’ve had all kinds of work.
No rest for the dead.
Sis! Over here!
Let's go, Maomao!
Young Master, we found it!
Is this good enough?
That’s probably enough.
What a nice lantern plant!
Nice, right?
You like it, so I made sure to find it.
No, didn't the maid find it?
Thanks.
But you're not the one
who collected this, right Kyou-u?
- Thanks.
- You’re welcome.
Nicely done!
Ow! Ow!
- So he can be honest sometimes, huh.
- It hurts, sis!
- I'll call you a brat,
- Quit it!
instead of a "damned brat."
So the festival, huh?
How long has it been
since we left the rear palace?
Lord Jinshi, the report is submitted.
Near the thicket where we found the paper,
we discovered an old shrine.
It seems she used it as an entry point.
and escaped through an abandoned waterway.
Then Maomao made it
outside the rear palace?
Possibly.
Also, since the day Xiaomao disappeared,
a new eunuch has gone missing too.
And as for the maid named Shisui,
we did not find her in the registry.
She’s not registered?
No. They say no such maid ever existed.
Lord Jinshi! Lady Gyokuyou...
NEXT EPISODE PREVIEW
The next episode is "The Lantern Plant."